Shorter many to many relation names (#6917)
keystonejs/keystone: .changeset/tasty-buses-jog.md

---
'@keystone-next/keystone': major
---

> The names of two-sided many-many relationships now only include the list key and field key for one side of the relationship and one-sided many relationships(which are many-many) no longer have `_many` at the end of them for consistency with two-sided relationships. This allows having many-many relationships with long list and field keys without hitting Postgres's 63 character limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The names of two-sided many-many and one-to-one relationships has have been shortened to the left hand side only.
This reduces the probability that you will exceed [POSTGRESQL's 63 character limit for identifiers](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-syntax-lexical.html#SQL-SYNTAX-IDENTIFIERS) with typical usage.

This is a breaking change. 

```

Reviewer 2: > one-to-one relationships has have been shortened to the left hand side only

This isn't correct and you've removed the mention of one-sided many relationships.

Reviewer: Fixed to read `one-to-many`

Reviewer 2: It's not about one to many, it's about one sided many relationships(which are many to many) - https://keystonejs.com/docs/guides/relationships

There are two ways to update:

> 1. Enable the `experimental.useLegacyManyRelationNames` option at the root of your config. This will make Keystone revert to the old relation names. This option will be removed in a future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set `experimental.useLegacyManyRelationNames: true` at the root of your config. This will make Keystone revert to the old relation names.  This feature will be removed in a future release.
```

Reviewer: While this feature will be removed in the future,  we are looking at the capability to use custom relation names rather than these automatically generated names.  This should resolve the problem in a robust manner.

> 2. Apply a migration to rename your many relation tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Or,  rename your many relation tables (see below)
```

> Given a schema like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example,  given a schema like this:
```

```ts
Post: list({
  fields: {
    tags: relationship({ ref: 'Tag.posts', many: true }),
  },
}),
Tag: list({
  fields: {
    posts: relationship({ ref: 'Post.tags', many: true }),
  },
}),
```

> When you run Keystone after updating, Keystone will prompt you to create a migration, you should do this but **DO NOT APPLY IT**, it needs to be modified before being applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When updating to this change,   and running `yarn dev`, Keystone will prompt you to update your schema.

- If you are using `useMigrations: true`, Keystone will follow the typical migration flow offer to apply an automatically generated migration.

### DO NOT APPLY THE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED MIGRATION
(unless you want to `DROP` your data)

- If you are using `useMigrations: false`, Keystone will follow the typical flow and offer to automatically migrate your schema.   Again,

### DO NOT AUTOMATICALLY MIGRATE
```

> On Postgres, Prisma will generate a migration that looks something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On PostgreSQL, Prisma will generate a migration that looks something like this:
```

This reduces the probability that you will exceed [PostgreSQL's 63 character limit for identifiers](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-syntax-lexical.html#SQL-SYNTAX-IDENTIFIERS) with typical usage.

This is a breaking change. 

There are two ways to update:

1. Set `experimental.useLegacyManyRelationNames: true` at the root of your config. This will make Keystone revert to the old relation names. This feature will be removed in a future release.
2. Or, rename your many relation tables using a migration (see below)

For example, given a schema like this:

```ts
Post: list({
  fields: {
    tags: relationship({ ref: 'Tag.posts', many: true }),
  },
}),
Tag: list({
  fields: {
    posts: relationship({ ref: 'Post.tags', many: true }),
  },
}),
```

When updating to this change, and running `yarn dev`, Keystone will prompt you to update your schema.

- If you are using `useMigrations: true`, Keystone will follow the typical migration flow offer to apply an automatically generated migration. **DO NOT APPLY THE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED MIGRATION** - unless you want to `DROP` your data.

> - If you are using `useMigrations: false`, Keystone will follow the typical flow and offer to automatically migrate your schema.   Again, **DO NOT RUN THE AUTOMATIC MIGRATION** - unless you want to `DROP` your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are using `useMigrations: false`, Keystone will follow the typical flow and offer to automatically migrate your schema.  Again, **DO NOT RUN THE AUTOMATIC MIGRATION** - unless you want to `DROP` your data.
```

This reduces the probability that you will exceed [PostgreSQL's 63 character limit for identifiers](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-syntax-lexical.html#SQL-SYNTAX-IDENTIFIERS) with typical usage.

This is a breaking change. 

There are two ways to update:

1. Set `experimental.useLegacyManyRelationNames: true` at the root of your config. This will make Keystone revert to the old relation names. This feature will be removed in a future release.
2. Or, rename your many relation tables using a migration (see below)

For example, given a schema like this:

```ts
Post: list({
  fields: {
    tags: relationship({ ref: 'Tag.posts', many: true }),
  },
}),
Tag: list({
  fields: {
    posts: relationship({ ref: 'Post.tags', many: true }),
  },
}),
```

When updating to this change, and running `yarn dev`, Keystone will prompt you to update your schema.

- If you are using `useMigrations: true`, Keystone will follow the typical migration flow offer to apply an automatically generated migration.

### DO NOT APPLY THE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED MIGRATION

> (unless you want to `DROP` your data)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

---
'@keystone-next/keystone': major
---

> The names of one-sided and two-sided, many-many relationships has been shortened.  Two-sided many-many relationship names contain only the left-hand side names now; and the `_many` suffix has been dropped from one-sided many-many relationships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The names of one-sided and two-sided, many-many relationships has been shortened. Two-sided many-many relationship names contain only the left-hand side names now; and the `_many` suffix has been dropped from one-sided many-many relationships.
```

This reduces the probability that you will exceed [PostgreSQL's 63 character limit for identifiers](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-syntax-lexical.html#SQL-SYNTAX-IDENTIFIERS) with typical usage.

This is a breaking change. 

There are two ways to update:

> 1. Set `experimental.useLegacyManyRelationNames: true` at the root of your config. This will make Keystone revert to the old relation names.  This feature will be removed in a future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set `experimental.useLegacyManyRelationNames: true` at the root of your config. This will make Keystone revert to the old relation names. This feature will be removed in a future release.
```

> 2. Or,  rename your many relation tables using a migration (see below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Or, rename your many relation tables using a migration (see below)
```

> For example,  given a schema like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, given a schema like this:
```

-- DropTable
DROP TABLE "_Post_tags_Tag_posts";

-- CreateTable
CREATE TABLE "_Post_tags" (
    "A" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "B" TEXT NOT NULL
);

-- CreateIndex
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX "_Post_tags_AB_unique" ON "_Post_tags"("A", "B");

-- CreateIndex
CREATE INDEX "_Post_tags_B_index" ON "_Post_tags"("B");

-- AddForeignKey
ALTER TABLE "_Post_tags" ADD FOREIGN KEY ("A") REFERENCES "Post"("id") ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE;

-- AddForeignKey
ALTER TABLE "_Post_tags" ADD FOREIGN KEY ("B") REFERENCES "Tag"("id") ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE;
```

You need to modify it so that it looks like this with the old and new table names for your schema substituted:

```sql
ALTER TABLE "_Post_tags_Tag_posts" RENAME TO "_Post_tags";
ALTER INDEX "_Post_tags_Tag_posts_AB_unique" RENAME TO "_Post_tags_AB_unique";
ALTER INDEX "_Post_tags_Tag_posts_B_index" RENAME TO "_Post_tags_B_index";
ALTER TABLE "_Post_tags" RENAME CONSTRAINT "_Post_tags_Tag_posts_A_fkey" TO "_Post_tags_A_fkey";
ALTER TABLE "_Post_tags" RENAME CONSTRAINT "_Post_tags_Tag_posts_B_fkey" TO "_Post_tags_B_fkey";
```

On SQLite, Prisma will generate a migration that looks something like this:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

There are two ways to update:

### Set `db.relationName` on many to many relation

> To avoid doing a migration, you can set `db.relationName` to the previous relation name on one side of a many to many relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rather than doing a migration, you can set the new field property `db.relationName` on any side of a many to many relationship.
If set to the existing relation name, e.g `Post_tags_Tag_posts`, you will not need to run any migration code.
```

For example, given a schema like this:

```ts
Post: list({
  fields: {
    tags: relationship({ ref: 'Tag.posts', many: true }),
  },
}),
Tag: list({
  fields: {
    posts: relationship({ ref: 'Post.tags', many: true }),
  },
}),
```

Before this release, the generated Prisma schema looked like this:

```prisma
// This file is automatically generated by Keystone, do not modify it manually.
// Modify your Keystone config when you want to change this.

datasource postgresql {
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
  provider = "postgresql"
}

generator client {
  provider   = "prisma-client-js"
  output     = "node_modules/.prisma/client"
  engineType = "binary"
}

model Post {
  id   String @id @default(cuid())
  tags Tag[]  @relation("Post_tags_Tag_posts")
}

model Tag {
  id    String @id @default(cuid())
  posts Post[] @relation("Post_tags_Tag_posts")
}
```

> You can add `db: { relationName: 'Post_tags_Tag_posts' }` to one side of the many to many relationship. It doesn't matter which side of the relationship it's on but it must only be on one side. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By adding `db: { relationName: 'Post_tags_Tag_posts' }` to one side of the many-to-many relationship; you can preclude yourself from a migration.

**Note:** It doesn't matter which side of the relationship you put this property,  but it should be only on one side; otherwise you will receive an error.
```
